---
title: "Privacy"
date: 2020-09-11
slug: "privacy"
---

- Home
- Privacy

## Privacy

Codename One doesn't track users who aren't logged in. However, we make use of 3rd party GDPR compliant services who do: Google Analytics & Crisp. In the past we used Intercom..

We maintain user data closely and make no commercial use of said data. User data is the property of the user and thus we don't transfer it to 3rd parties in any way. We use the data strictly to provide our service and improve upon it.

Use of Crisp Services: We use third-party analytics services to help understand your usage of our services. In particular, we provide a limited amount of your information (such as sign-up date and some personal information like your email address) to Crisp and utilize it to collect data for analytics purposes when you visit our website or use our product. As a data processor acting on our behalf, Crisp analyzes your use of our website and/or product and tracks our relationship by way of cookies and similar technologies so that we can improve our service to you. For more information on Crips use of cookies, please visit crisp.chat/en/privacy/. We may also use Crisp as a medium for communications, either through email, or through messages within our product(s). As part of our service agreements, Crisp collects publicly available contact and social information related to you, such as your email address, gender, company, job title, photos, website URLs, social network handles and physical addresses, to enhance your user experience. For more information on the privacy practices of Crisp. If you would like to opt out of having this information collected by or submitted to Crisp, please contact us. Notice that this will limit your ability to use some forms of support within the site.

Use of Google Analytics: Google Analytics doesn't collect any private information and doesn't bind to user account data. No private data is tracked by analytics.

Apps built with Codename One include by default a small script that anonymously tracks device installs. This contains anonymized statistics and doesn't track individual users or usage. This data is used purely for statistics. The following anonymous data is logged: OS, Version and Browser User Agent. This can be disabled entirely using the build hint block\_server\_registration. Note that this build hint requires a basic subscription or higher.
